Add `GB Cup 2024 Autumn` wiki articles (#12346)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Tournaments/GBC/GBC_2024_Autumn/en.md

---
tags:
  - GBC
  - GB Cup
  - GBC2024
  - GBC 2024

>   - GBC2024Autumn

Author: 加了，不过应该不怎么影响

---

# GB Cup 2024 Autumn

![GBC 2024 Autumn banner](img/banner.png)

> The **GB Cup 2024 Autumn** (***GBC 2024 Autumn***) is a 3v3 captain draft–based osu!mania 4-key tournament hosted by Team GB. It was the seventh instalment of the GB Cup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **GB Cup 2024 Autumn** (***GBC 2024 Autumn***) is a 3v3 captain draft–based osu!mania 4-key tournament hosted by Team GB. It is the seventh instalment of the GB Cup.
```

| Event | Timestamp |
| --: | :-- |
| Registration phase | 2024-10-05/2024-10-20 (13:59 UTC) |
| Qualifier showcase | 2024-10-20 (14:00 UTC) |
| Qualifier stage | 2024-10-26/2024-10-27 |
| Qualifier result showcase | 2024-11-03 (12:00 UTC) |
| Drafting phase | 2024-11-10 |
| Swiss I week 1 showcase | 2024-11-10 |
| Swiss I week 1 | 2024-11-16/2024-11-17 |
| Swiss I week 2 | 2024-11-23/2024-11-24 |
| Swiss I week 3 | 2024-11-30/2024-12-01 |
| Swiss II week 1 | 2024-12-07/2024-12-08 |
| Swiss II week 2 | 2024-12-14/2024-12-15 |
| Swiss II week 3 | 2024-12-21/2024-12-22 |
| Elimination week 1 | 2024-12-28/2024-12-29 |
| Elimination week 2 | 2025-01-04/2025-01-05 |

## Organisation

The GB Cup 2024 Autumn is run by Team GB and various community members.

| Position | Member(s) |
| :-- | :-- |
| Host | ::{ flag=CN }:: [\[GB\]yobrevelc](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/14128407) |
| Staff | ::{ flag=CN }:: [\[GB\]GanyuAngel](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/27233308), ::{ flag=CN }:: [\[GB\]Mafufu](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/10884561) |
| Mappool manager | ::{ flag=CN }:: [\[GB\]yobrevelc](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/14128407), ::{ flag=CN }:: [\[GB\]Mafufu](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/10884561) |

> | Proposer | ::{ flag=KR }:: [\[GB\]SuddenDeath](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6699923), ::{ flag=CN }:: [\[GB\]R-Trigger](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/25308131), ::{ flag=CN }:: [\[GB\]Thaumiel](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/15017771) |

Reviewer 2: "proposer" doesn't make sense. is this meant to be "advisor"?

Reviewer 3: it is mainly used to recommend existed maps for mappool, we never found such roles before so we use this word by translators, but it sounds quite different with advisor, would you have some better recommendation?

Reviewer 2: so "mappool advisor"? if "proposer" is a direct translation of a role that assists in selecting maps for the mappool, then "advisor" would sound much better

Author: change to `mappool advisor`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Mappool advisor | ::{ flag=KR }:: [\[GB\]SuddenDeath](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6699923), ::{ flag=CN }:: [\[GB\]R-Trigger](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/25308131), ::{ flag=CN }:: [\[GB\]Thaumiel](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/15017771) |
```

5. There will be an optional 5-minute break in between the first and second playthrough of the mappool.
6. We suggest players not to broadcast or share their results to avoid seed manipulation.
7. Qualifier stage results will be used for seeding and for choosing captains.
   - Higher scores lead to a higher chance to be picked during the drafting phase. Players are eliminated if they do not get picked, or if they get too low of a score during Qualifers.
8. Some best-performance players will advance to drafting phase.
   - Disrupting the match by foul play or seed manipulation will result in disqualification, and any such players will be announced before the drafting phase takes place.
9. Players will use same multiplayer rooms if they select same time to play the Qualifiers. It is prohibited to abort a match with the reason of a technical problem, in which case the score will be recorded as is.

### Stage instructions

1. Following the Qualifier stage, all players will participate in a phase to form teams, called the *drafting phase*. Both divisions will have independent drafting phases. All unpicked players will be eliminated from the tournament.

> 2. Following the drafting phase, a Swiss stage will be played in both zones, called the *regular stage*. Teams from the two divisions will play 6 rounds of the Swiss Round to determine 8 teams each to advance to the knockout round, with the other teams eliminated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Following the drafting phase, a Swiss stage will be played in both zones, called the *regular stage*. Teams from the two divisions will play 6 rounds of the Swiss round to determine 8 teams each to advance to the knockout round, with the other teams eliminated.
```

> 3. Following the regular stage, a single elimination stage will be played in both divisions, called *playoffs*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Following the regular stage, a single-elimination stage will be played in both divisions, called *playoffs*.
```

   - *This might change depending on the number of incoming registrations.*
5. Each captain has 60 seconds to pick one player from the player pool on their turn.
   - If the captain does not pick a player within 60 seconds, a random player from the remaining player pool will be assigned to their team.
6. If the captain picks a player, the pick time still has to elapse before the next captain's turn starts.
7. After each phase, there is a 60-second break before the next phase starts.
8. At all times, the captains may communicate with each other via multiplayer chatrooms or voice chat.
   - Other players will be muted during the drafting phase.
9. After the drafting phase, captains may choose, with the approval of the host, to delegate their role to other prospective team members.
10. Captains may also choose to rename their team name after the drafting phase.
    - The default name of team is: `Team {X}`, with `{X}` being an abbreviation of the captain's name.
    - Team names cannot be longer than **24** characters (a Chinese character is considered as 2).
11. Bad behaviour during the drafting phase will be seen as disrupting the match by foul play.

> 12. Players are strictly prohibited from contacting captains before the draft phase to manipulate the draft.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
12. To prevent draft manipulation, players are strictly prohibited from contacting captains before the draft phase.
```

### Regular phase instructions

1. The regular phase will be divided into two divisions, the Discord division and the QQ division.
   - Players can choose the division and participate in the team of the corresponding division. Players must ensure that they can use the chat tool of the corresponding division and keep the chat open.
2. Following the drafting phase, two 3-round Swiss stages will be played. This means teams with same match record will face each other.
   - The number of teams in each division to enter the elimination phase is 8 or 4, which depends on the number of registrations.

>    - Every 3-round Swiss stage will eliminated half of the teams. Win twice will be approved, lose twice will be eliminated. If a team win in first 2 rounds, then they will skip the round 3.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - Every 3-round Swiss stage will eliminate half of the teams. Teams that win twice will advance, and teams that lose twice will be eliminated. If a team wins in the first 2 rounds, then they will skip the 3rd round.
```

     - For a ready timer, the referee will issue the `!mp start 10` command, regardless of how many players from each team are present in the lobby, using `!mp kick` on any extra players for each team, starting from the top (i.e. the first valid player combination for each team will be forced to play the pick). The results for such games are to be taken as is.
   - Repeat offenders may receive further sanctions from the host.

### Mappool instructions

1. There will be six separate mappools.
2. Each mappool consists of a fixed amount of maps each stage which will all be played under [FreeMod](/wiki/Gameplay/Game_modifier#free-mod) conditions. This means that there is a unique FreeMod bracket.
3. The mappool sizes are as follows:
   - Qualifiers: 8 beatmaps
   - Mappool in the regular phase: 15 beatmaps
   - Mappool in the elimination phase: 17 beatmaps.
4. Each mappool has one tiebreaker, except for the Qualifiers. The tiebreaker will be played under FreeMod conditions.
5. Possible mod choices for the FreeMod bracket are `NoFail`, `Hidden`, `Fade In`, `Flashlight`, and `Mirror`.

> 6. The round 2 & round 3 in a Swiss Round will use same mappools, the final week will use same mappool.

Reviewer 2: please check if this is correct

```suggestion
6. Round 2 and round 3 in the Swiss rounds will use same mappools, while the final week will use a different mappool.
```

Reviewer 3: no,
- we have 2 Swiss, and for both of them, r2 and r3 will use same pool.
- final week will might have 2 rounds, but use same mappool.

Reviewer 2: so 

```suggestion
6. Round 2 and 3 in the Swiss rounds, as well as the final week, will use same mappool.
```

Reviewer 2: as in there is **one** mappool used by everything?

Author: ![8a5fbcbb2fd3541396c2600a5067f56e](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b2b454c3-ede6-44b6-9244-f05603553024)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. In both Swiss rounds, weeks 2 and 3 will use the same mappool.
```

where is the "final week" in that image?

Author: recommend `Round 2 and 3 in a Swiss round will use the same mappool, and each knockout week will use a different mappool`

Reviewer 2: alternatively

```suggestion
6. Mappools for each week are structured as follows:

| Stage | Mappool |
| :-- | :-- |
| Swiss I week 1 | A |
| Swiss I week 2 & 3 | B |
| Swiss II week 1 | C |
| Swiss II week 2 & 3 | D |
| Knockout week 1 | E |
| Knockout week 2 | F |
```

   - Higher scores lead to a higher chance to be picked during the drafting phase. Players are eliminated if they do not get picked, or if they get too low of a score during Qualifers.
8. Some best-performance players will advance to drafting phase.
   - Disrupting the match by foul play or seed manipulation will result in disqualification, and any such players will be announced before the drafting phase takes place.
9. Players will use same multiplayer rooms if they select same time to play the Qualifiers. It is prohibited to abort a match with the reason of a technical problem, in which case the score will be recorded as is.

### Stage instructions

1. Following the Qualifier stage, all players will participate in a phase to form teams, called the *drafting phase*. Both divisions will have independent drafting phases. All unpicked players will be eliminated from the tournament.
2. Following the drafting phase, a Swiss stage will be played in both zones, called the *regular stage*. Teams from the two divisions will play 6 rounds of the Swiss round to determine 8 teams each to advance to the knockout round, with the other teams eliminated.

> 3. Following the regular stage, a single-elimination stage will be played in both divisions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Following the regular stage, a single-elimination stage will be played in both divisions.
```

   - *This might change depending on the number of incoming registrations.*
5. Each captain has 60 seconds to pick one player from the player pool on their turn.
   - If the captain does not pick a player within 60 seconds, a random player from the remaining player pool will be assigned to their team.
6. If the captain picks a player, the pick time still has to elapse before the next captain's turn starts.
7. After each phase, there is a 60-second break before the next phase starts.
8. At all times, the captains may communicate with each other via multiplayer chatrooms or voice chat.
   - Other players will be muted during the drafting phase.
9. After the drafting phase, captains may choose, with the approval of the host, to delegate their role to other prospective team members.
10. Captains may also choose to rename their team name after the drafting phase.
    - The default name of team is: `Team {X}`, with `{X}` being an abbreviation of the captain's name.
    - Team names cannot be longer than **24** characters (a Chinese character is considered as 2).
11. Bad behaviour during the drafting phase will be seen as disrupting the match by foul play.

> 12. To prevent draft manipulate, players are strictly prohibited from contacting captains before the draft phase.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
12. To prevent draft manipulation, players are strictly prohibited from contacting captains before the draft phase.
```
